docs: documenting the different types of Mappings (#3266)
hashicorp/pandora: docs/internals-mappings.md

# Internals: Mappings

Each Pandora-generated Terraform Resource is associated with a single version of the API - and the Terraform Schema Model(s) for this Resource are based on the API Version.

Mappings define how to map each Field within each Terraform Schema Model onto each Field within the associated SDK Models (located in `hashicorp/go-azure-sdk`).

> **Note:** Mappings are bidirectional - meaning we're mapping the Terraform Schema Field onto an SDK Field (in Terraform's Create/Update functions) and the SDK Field onto the Terraform Schema Field (in Terraform's Read function).

There are three different types of Mappings:

1. Field Mappings.
2. Model to Model Mappings.
3. Resource ID (Segment) Mappings.

In each case, these map the fields in the Terraform Schema onto either the SDK Models - or the Resource ID for a given Resource.

> Whilst Mappings define how to map a Type of Field from the Schema to another Field, mapping the value of those fields is left to the Terraform Generator, for example where one field is Required and another is Optional - the Terraform Generator should handle passing either a reference/the value as needed.

Reviewer: What is meant by `type of Field`. It looks like the types are mentioned down below e.g. `DirectAssignment`, `ModelToModel` etc. but that's not clear here.

The Type of Field Mapping that this is determines how the two values should be mapped onto one another - of which there are three possible Types:

1. `DirectAssignment` - which specifies that these values should be directly assigned (e.g. `a = b`) onto one-another - doing any transformation necessary (e.g. `flatten` functions, handling one being Optional the other being Required etc).
2. `ModelToModel` - which specifies that this Schema Field should be mapped onto another Model. This happens when the Fields `ObjectDefinition` is either a `Reference`, `Dictionary[string, Reference]`, `List[Reference]` or `Set[Reference]`.
3. `Manual` - specifies that this Field must be manually mapped (for example due to complex behaviour).

> _Future thought:_ additional Field Mapping types could be added to support additional use-cases. For example, transforming values (e.g. such as having an `Integer` used in the Terraform Schema, but a `String` exposed in the SDK - or to support handling `SkuName` etc). 

### a. `DirectAssignment` Field Mappings

> A `DirectAssignment` mapping specifies that the value of a Field within the Terraform Schema should be mapped onto the value of a Field within the related (Go) SDK Model - and vica-versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `DirectAssignment` mapping specifies that the value of a Field within the Terraform Schema should be mapped onto the value of a Field within the related (Go) SDK Model and vice-versa.
```

Conversions between Object Definition Types (for example the Schema containing an Integer but the SDK containing a String value) are not supported at this time - but if needed would likely be supported as a new type of Mapping.

Direct Assignment Mappings support the following properties:

* `schemaModelName` - specifies the name of the Terraform Schema Model where this value should be mapped from.
* `schemaFieldPath` - specifies the path to the Field within the Terraform Schema Model defined in `schemaModelName` which this should be mapped from.
* `sdkModelName` - specifies the name of the SDK Model where this value should be mapped onto.
* `sdkFieldPath` - specifies the Path to the Field within the SdkModel where the Schema Field should be mapped onto.

> **Note:** Whilst `schemaFieldPath` and `sdkFieldPath` are named `Path` to allow supporting indexed keys in the future (for example using `AppSettings.SomeSetting` to retrieve the value for the key `SomeSetting` within the Dictionary defined in the `AppSettings` property) - at this point in time these only support top-level fields (e.g. `Name`).

An example of a Direct Assignment Mapping can be seen below:

> > **Note:** A more complete example can be seen under `Examples` below.

Reviewer: I understand this is trying to be helpful but repeating it multiple times throughout this guide is unnecessary bloat and noise for a topic that's complex. Say it once, probably at the top of the document.

```json
{
  "fieldMappings": [
    {
      "type": "DirectAssignment",
      "directAssignment": {
        "schemaModelName": "SolarSystemResourceSchema",
        "schemaFieldPath": "Name",
        "sdkModelName": "SolarSystem",
        "sdkFieldPath": "Name"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### b. `ModelToModel` Field Mappings

ModelToModel Field Mappings - not to be confused with ModelToModel Mappings (below) - allow mapping a Terraform Schema Model onto a field within an SDK Model.

> The best example of this is allowing the top-level Terraform Schema Model for a given Terraform Resource to map onto the `properties` object that exists in most payloads in Azure Resource Manager - allowing for fields which exist at the root of the Terraform Schema to be mapped to a nested object.

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to give explicit examples here for what top-level Terraform Schema Models you mean, e.g. `location`? `tags`?

Each ModelToModel Field Mapping must have an associated ModelToModel mapping, these are used together:

* A ModelToModel Field Mapping is used to output the call to the mapping function itself.

> * A ModelToModel Mapping is used to output the mapping function, the fields which should be mapped are then inferred from the ModelToModel Field Mappings.

Reviewer: This sounds like they're both doing the same thing: 
`output the call to the mapping function` vs. `output the mapping function`
This might want to be rephrased or more information to distinguish the difference in functionality.

> > **Note:** A complete end-to-end example can be found below under `Example`.

Reviewer: I understand this is trying to be helpful but repeating it multiple times throughout this guide is unnecessary bloat and noise for a topic that's complex. Say it once, probably at the top of the document.

> Model to Model Field Mappings support the following properties:

Reviewer: We're not separating this anywhere else in the docs, to be consistent I think this should be 
```suggestion
ModelToModel Field Mappings support the following properties:
```

* `schemaModelName` - specifies the name of the Terraform Schema Model that should be mapped onto the Field within the SDK Model.
* `sdkModelName` - specifies the name of the SDK Model containing the SDK Field that the Terraform Schema Model should be mapped onto.
* `sdkFieldPath` - specifies the Path to the Field within the SDK Model where the Terraform Schema Model should be mapped onto.

> An example of a Model to Model Field Mapping can be seen below: 

Reviewer: Same here 
```suggestion
An example of a ModelToModel Field Mapping can be seen below: 
```

```json
{
  "fieldMappings": [
    {
      "type": "ModelToModel",
      "modelToModel": {
        "schemaModelName": "SolarSystemResourceSchema",
        "sdkModelName": "SolarSystem",
        "sdkFieldName": "Properties"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

This would allow the Terraform Generator to output:

```go
func (r VirtualMachineResource) mapVirtualMachineResourceSchemaToVirtualMachineProperties(input VirtualMachineResourceSchema, output *virtualmachines.VirtualMachine) error {
    if output.Properties == nil {
        output.Properties = &virtualmachines.VirtualMachineProperties{}
    }
    if err := r.mapVirtualMachineResourceSchemaToVirtualMachineProperties(input, output.Properties); err != nil {
        return fmt.Errorf("mapping Schema to SDK Field %q / Model %q: %+v", "Properties", "SolarSystemProperties", err)
    }
    
    return nil

> }

Reviewer: In this example this function would be calling itself, is that what it's supposed to do?

```

As mentioned above, this implies the presence of an associated ModelToModel Mapping, which would then generate the mapping for the Model itself:

```go
func (r VirtualMachineResource) mapVirtualMachineResourceSchemaToVirtualMachineProperties(input VirtualMachineResourceSchema, output *virtualmachines.VirtualMachineProperties) error {
    // ...
    // DirectAssignment Field Mappings would be output here
    // ...
    
    return nil

> }

Reviewer: From the explanation of the example this would be generated in addition to the function example above, but it has the same function name as the function above?

```

### c. `Manual` Field Mappings

> > **Note:** At this point in time Manual Mappings are only partially configured and **need reworking** - as such this section explains the intention this type of Mapping, so that we can fix this in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** At this point in time Manual Mappings are only partially configured and **need reworking** - as such this section explains the intention of this type of Mapping, so that we can fix this in the future.
```

    "schemaToSdkMethodName": "mapSomeComplexPropertyToSomePayloadProperty",
    "sdkModelName": "VirtualMachineProperties",
    "sdkFieldPath": "SomePayloadProperty",
    "sdkToSchemaMethodName": "mapSomePayloadPropertyToSomeComplexProperty"
  }
}
```

In this example the following properties would exist:

* `schemaModelName` - specifies the name of the Terraform Schema Model where the Field that should be mapped to/from exists.
* `schemaFieldPath` - specifies the path to the Field within the Terraform Schema Model that should be mapped to/from the Field within the SDK.
* `schemaToSdkMethodName` - specifies the name of a function that should be assumed to exist within the Terraform Provider, which maps the value of the Terraform Schema Field onto the SDK Field.
* `sdkModelName` - specifies the name of the SDK Model where the SDK Field defined in `sdkFieldPath` exists.
* `sdkFieldPath`- specifies the path to the Field within the SDK Model where the Schema Field should be mapped to/from.
* `sdkToSchemaMethodName` - specifies the name of a function that should be assumed to exist within the Terraform Provider, which maps the value of the SDK Field onto the Terraform Schema Field.

> > **Note:** The current implementation that exists exposed only `methodName` - as such is only useful for one-way value transformations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The current implementation that exists exposes only `methodName` and is only useful for one-way value transformations.
```

> ## 2: Model to Model Mappings

Reviewer: Inconsistent with the other headers in this doc
```suggestion
## 2: `ModelToModel` Mappings
```

A ModelToModel mapping defines that a Terraform Schema Model should be mapped onto an SDK Model.

> **Note:** A ModelToModel Mapping and a ModelToModel Field Mapping are related but different - a ModelToModel Field Mapping _must_ have an associated ModelToModel Mapping - however a ModelToModel mapping can exist without a ModelToModel Field Mapping.

Model to Model Mappings support the following properties:

* `schemaModelName` - specifies the name of the Terraform Schema Model that the SDK Model should be mapped to/from.
* `sdkModelName` - specifies the name of the SDK Model that the Terraform Schema Model should be mapped to/from.

An example of a Model to Model mapping can be seen below:

```json
{
  "modelToModelMappings": [
    {
      "schemaModelName": "VirtualMachineResourceSchema",
      "sdkModelName": "VirtualMachine"
    }
  ]
}
```

> > **Note:** An end-to-end example can be found under `Example` below.

Reviewer: I understand this is trying to be helpful but repeating it multiple times throughout this guide is unnecessary bloat and noise for a topic that's complex. Say it once, probably at the top of the document.

* `fieldMappings[1]` - The Terraform Schema Field `description` (represented by the field `Description` within the Schema Model `SolarSystemResourceSchema`) gets mapped onto the SDK Field `Description` within the SDK Model `SolarSystemProperties`.
* `fieldMappings[2]` - The Terraform Schema Field `planets` (represented by the field `Planets` within the Schema Model `SolarSystemResourceSchema`) gets mapped onto the SDK Field `Planets` within the SDK Model `SolarSystemProperties`. Since this is a list, each item will be mapped across in-turn.``
* `fieldMappings[3]` - The Terraform Schema Field `name` within `planets` (represented by the field `Name` within the Schema Model `SolarSystemResourcePlanetSchema`) gets mapped onto the SDK Field `Name` within the SDK Model `Planet`.

> **Note:** In this (simplified) example there are no `resourceIdMappings` - however examples of this can be seen above.

This would allow the Terraform Generator to output mapping functions similar to below:

> > Whilst mappings are bidirectional (that is Schema Model -> SDK Model and SDK Model -> Schema Model) - to reduce the amount of output only the Schema Model -> SDK Model mappings are shown below - but the inverse can be implied.

Reviewer: Leaving things to be implied for complex subjects will lead to misinterpretations, misunderstandings and errors as we've learnt. For completeness the SDK Model -> Schema Model mappings should be included.
